So the other question is,
is there any case where you might to
explicitly specify the type in use state?
That is a great segue that I am
going to use to kind of talk
about one of our next problems
we're gonna have to solve for.
Which is, let's assume we're
getting some from an API,
right, like TypeScript inferred
that hidden or is hidden and
toggle hidden should be bullying
because we pass it a bullying.
But if we're fetching something from
an API, it could at the very beginning,
be something like perhaps, undefined or
null or something along those lines.
Right, at which point we don't know yet,
which means TypeScript can't
really infer anything yet.
Which point we might need to be
able to explain what's going on.
So here in our application
we wanna explain,
we will just show like
little character cards here.
And there's some data in here as well.
This is, right now we're gonna load
it from another file simply because,
I wanna make sure that If we use an API
doesn't go down in six months or whatever.
But we're going to basically use
this promise called fetch character,
which is going to immediately resolve,
effectively simulate an API for us.
And you can see a little bit
about the character type and
all the things it's gonna have in there
as well, that we have defined already.
But we're gonna load this, with a promise.
So we can't just immediately hard code in
that data, we have to be able to figure
out, okay, we're gonna start out with null
or undefined in this case, and then we'll
go ahead and we will load the data and be
able to begin to figure it out from there.
Okay, so, let's look at this component and
figure out what we might seek to do here.
We wanna show the character
information component, right?
It's just simple.
It's like a heading and a table that just
shows all of those different attributes.
You can kind of take
a look at it over here.
There's a little more room, which is
it's effectively the character name, and
then all the other properties and a table.
There's nothing particularly
special about it.
We haven't done anything around that yet.
And we don't necessarily
have the characters yet.
So we'll solve for that,
which is we do know that
eventually we do wanna have
a given character that we load.
So we'll say const character and
set character
Equals react I use state,
but what is it going to be?
Normally what we would have done in
regular react so we just said null and
we would have filled in later.
We would have done a little null check at
some point to make sure that it does what
we think it's supposed to do.
We might say something like character.
And if we have it then show me
that character information card.
And you can see we get some autocomplete,
the character
Cool, that's character or null.
Or you could also do and
then do that instead.
Right.
Sweet, one of the problems that typescript
is yelling at me right now about is
saying, listen, hey, the character
information component is expecting
a character type to get passed in and
you gave me null.
And that's a legitimate concern.
We need to deal with that in a second.
But so TypeScript again, is looking at us
if we don't have this file open, right?.
It's trying to show us in
the context of what we're doing.
What the potential issue is now, we
knew that that was going to be an issue.
We're not particularly surprised by it,
what we'll do is we'll use react
at use effect, and we'll say,
When this loads for the first time,
go ahead and fetch a character.
Then with the character
Set the character.
Cool.
And you can see that it
loads the character and
puts everything in there as well.
But you can still see it's angry with us,
right?
For a few reasons, it's like,
hey, you can't pass in null.
Now it's working but we told TypeScript
originally that character was null
cuz that was the first value of past and
like what helped us in
the last exercise is now slightly
problematic for us in this one, right?
You passed in null, I expected their
character was always gonna get set to
null, and
then you set it to a character and
even it's like well character is supposed
to be null like it works this time.
This is not cool.
So really what we got to
do is we might say, okay,
listen state it's gonna
be a character type.
All right, that quiet most of the red
squiggly lines for us, except for
the fact that you passed it null and
you said it was gonna be a character type.
So in this case, what we do is we'd say,
all right, listen, depending on where
we are in fetching the asynchronous code,
character type is either going to be or
the character that we use in our state
is either going to be a character type,
or it's going to be null if
we haven't loaded it yet.
And that will work in this case.
And it will pass it in.
And what's interesting is react
is okay with us right now.
If we did something like paste and
stuff like this,
you can see that in this case
is no longer okay with us.
It's saying, and this is again,
this is TypeScript.
This is actually kind of
impressive if you think about it,
here It knows that you've checked
to see if character exists,
which means TypeScript can pretty much
confirm that character is non null.
And since character can only be null or
a character type,
and is not null,
it must be a character type, right?
Here on the other hand,
you didn't do a check.
And so react or TypeScript is rather like,
I don't know this is null or character
type and this character information
card only takes a character type.
And so I'm uncomfortable right now, right?
And again that TypeScript can vary
subtly trying to help you from what,
cuz you can see this code technically
works, but on a long enough timeline,
you could see a world where the code
base grows and it grows and it grows.
And all of a sudden it
doesn't work at all.
Sweet.
So one of the questions is,
this promise immediately resolves.
What would happen,
if it took a little bit of time,
the promise is gonna run
asynchronously which means
this will be null for a little bit longer.
For instance, we could theoretically go.
Let's actually just say,
let's cheat a little bit.
Let's, we'll simulate
a slow network connection.
I'll just refresh this completely.
Right it will have remained null until
that second expires, and it loads.
We might choose to do something
like add in a loading or
something along those lines
to put in there as well.
So we can say something like for
instance, we've got a loading component.
So we could say,
At this point I don't,
it's true, Until it's false,
right, and so we can at this point will
say, all right, fetch the character.
Let me actually just give myself some
curly braces to buy myself a little more
room here.
And we'll say when it's fetched,
the character will also say,
set loading to false.
And we could show something like As well.
And now, we refresh this cuz
it's using hot reloading.
It's easy loading and
then it loads, right?
And again, like react or
TypeScript just figure it out.
We're checking to see in this case,
is this null or not, it knows
the difference and kind of mostly figure
out a lot of this for us on our behalf.
One of the skills that you might
want to train in yourself is,
and I say this from personal experience.
Sometimes again, that's why the kind of
some of the fundamental concepts make
a little bit of sense here, which is if
you don't fully understand the way it
works, you're like TypeScript
is the problem here.
It's making things harder for me, right?
And it's mostly trying to help you.
So let's look at an example where we
could see that roughly the same logic,
will not work on TypeScript we have, so
we'll comment this out for a second.
And we'll say, yeah,
I'm totally gonna check to see everything.
So if it's loading and
there's no character, right?
Then I wanna show the loading component,
right?
Otherwise, show me
the character information with
the character being the character, right?
And you can see that TypeScript
are happy with this, right?
And you're like what
it just worked before.
Like, what's the difference?
I don't understand.
Like this is ridiculous.
I'm going to quit programming and
start a vegan junk food truck, right?
It's not worth it.
Well, if we think about it,
staring at it for a little bit,
we can figure out that, right before
we're saying like is there a character,
okay if there is a character is not null,
right?
Saying that there is no character doesn't,
saying that something doesn't
exist doesn't help TypeScript know that
it's not null in this case, right?
We actually like to say is does this value
exists thereby it can't be null cuz this
could be all sorts of different things and
it doesn't give TypeScript the confidence
it needs to know that this won't be null
cuz there are edge cases here, right?
So sometimes worth say anything about,
okay what is the logic here am I kind of
explaining this attach to you well enough
to allow it to help me from bucks right,
so kind of flipping some of
the logic around like this can.
There are cases where this condition can
pass in a way that you didn't expect,
right?
So what TypeScript is trying to do
is being, listen, I'm a computer.
I can run all the probabilities here.
There are edge cases here, and
things that can happen that
will slip through the cracks.
So again it is one of those things which
is the computer is probably right in this
case and just worth before you get upset
with it just kind of worth thinking about,
okay, am I thinking about this right?